Hello and welcome to creating a table lecture this lecture is very important because unlike creating
a database creating a table actually requires a lot of thought and you need to understand the process
behind Crania.
Very well in order to get it and be able to recreate it at any point of time.
So as you can see a have P.G. admin for load it up.
Let's open our rescue all check our databases out as you can see we have free databases.
And this happened to my database.
The database we just created.
And those go ahead does chemo's public tables chelators no tables on site.
So right now this is a completely empty database.
So first thing we want to do is right click and tables or in any.
Now the new query opens up what we want to do is one and right create table.
So this is the statement to creating tables.
Easy as that.
Same as great database but great table.
So before we go hand let's discuss what we're going to be creating this table for.
This section is all about getting used to the syntax and understanding the logic behind it.
So we're going to be working with data we input ourselves.
It doesn't matter what table you will create what data you will and put in it and what name you will
give to it.
I personally will be working with movies table.
So it's going to be my favorite movies for you.
You can just follow along with the lectures or create your own table and just follow along with this
and thinks that I'm going to be showing you.
So with the mummies table that we're going to create is good to go ahead and call it east.
We can already create it.
So this is the syntax you have create table.
Then you have your table name and then you have two brackets.
So inside these brackets all the attributes and constraints go.
So already if you run this it will create it.
So if we go ahead click refresh here you will see that a new table has been created but it has no columns
creating an empty table without any columns is a very unique thing to PG&E in the grass.
Q.
So a lot of times if you're going to be working of any different software or a command line it will
not allow you to do this.
So it's not a very good idea to ever do this.
I'm just showing you that it's possible to do in rescue all.
So a lot of times are all of the times what you want to be doing is you just want to enter this enter
this and now tap this and be writing all your column names in here.
That's the way I like to keep it.
You can also write it all in one line.
This just makes it way easier for understanding and readability of your of your cult.
So before we go on a photo before we forget let's right click here and say delete drop to delete this
empty table so we can create a table with this name.
You cannot create two tables with the same name inside one database you will have to change it.
And we don't want to do that.
So again let's talk about the table for a second in my movies.
What I want to record the names of my favorite movies the year they've been released in the country
where they've been produced in the genre of these movies.
And I wanted to be all organized nice and neat.
This is why I'm training database so first thing our first column is name.
So let's go ahead quickly write that down.
And as you can see because it Hala said with purple.
That means it's a function and I don't want that to be a function.
I want it to be I call them names so I just add something inside and after it so it goes to black text
and doesn't give you a problem.
I don't know.
But come on now we can select the second column which will be called year and again year is a function.
So I just hope we had a movie front and the first column will be called country.
This is not a function so we can just leave with like this.
And the last column is called gender.
So again right now we can not run this query if we try.
In fact let's try it.
And there we go.
As you can see it gives us an error because of the syntax but it's not because of the syntax that we
messed something up in the create table statement.
What we did not include is the data type for each one of these elements as Q else simply does not understand
what we need to record in these columns.
And therefore it cannot it cannot allocate the appropriate space for these columns.
And it just cannot create them.
What we need to do is we need to specify data types.
So again movie name will be more char because it will include characters and numbers and I will specify
that I want it to be no longer than 200 characters and movie year.
I want to be integer.
Just because it's going to be a whole number and I'm just going to have four numbers in it country again
is going to be Wordstar in one country to be no longer than let's say 50 characters or even 100 characters
just to be safe and genere again I'm going to put that it's Wotcher but because yawners can be quite
big and consist of several subcategories.
I'm going to put no constraint on how much space we allocate to genre.
So this space on location is very important because if you want to make your database process quicker
and just generally run smoother you want to allocate as little data as possible for each column.
But again if you don't do it or do it with very big high ceiling then you avoid making silly mistakes
and running into troubles later on.
So now if we run this it will actually create our database for us and again as you can see also and
it's my fault for this is decimal and not integer.
We cannot put constraints and integer.
So just leave it like this and knowledge and run it as you can see if we go ahead.
Refresh this.
We will have our table movies.
We have four columns inside.
None of these columns have any data because we haven't filled them of data yet.
But at this point the table is ready to go.
And if you just want to manipulate some data work with some basic data extraction tools and you don't
have to have more tables inside this database you can live this as it is.
However in this section let's try and make this database and bid we're a bit more structured.
So what I want to say is that on the say John her words her and then I want to put comma and I want
to say primary key.
So as you know primary key specifies attributes or columns that can be used to uniquely identify a rope.
In our case I-List.
Think about it.
John Hirst cannot be our primary key because there's hundreds of different genders but a lot of movies
have the same genres in them country.
Again most of the movies are produced in Hollywood and we're all going to be getting a lot of USA.
It will never be.
It will be almost impossible to find any one movie movie year is again there is a lot of movies produced
every year so it cannot be used as primary key and movie name cannot be used as primary key again because
of all the reboots that remain the same name without even adding a number.
So what can we use a primary key.
Surely we should not have to use all four of these columns to find any one role.
Well in our case what we can do is we can say that primary key consists of two columns.
Movie name then put comma and same movie year as well.
And this is due to the fact that no two movies are produced in the same year that have the exact same
name all the reboots happen at least one year apart from each other.
So this primary key satisfies our need.
So now if we go ahead and trade this table before we trade and let's just delete this so we can create
this movie stable.
So now if we go ahead and trade this one and refresh our tables section we can see that we still have
four columns.
But now if we click on constraints it will show us that movies has a primary key and it constrains shows
all of that.
It shows us the unique values of all the different rules that we put on our data.
So now there's a couple ways we can improve our database.
The first one being exciting not now values and what that does it says that for example we have to make
sure that movie name has a value in it so movie name consists of at least one letter.
And that way will prevent us from making mistakes where we put empty data.
However because movie name and movie you're already primary key that's done by default so primary key
basically says that movie name and movie year have to be not null.
But let's say that I want the country or underage owner to be up north.
So even if I don't know the country that doesn't matter to me as much as not knowing the gender I want
to know if I'm watching a comedy or is going to be a scary movie or whatever else is going to be.
So we just add not now after the data type Sinaloan run it before diddlers delete this database movies.
So go ahead click delete.
Go ahead run this one.
And as you can see if we refresh this one we have again four columns one constrained from the Nix's
and just Sam.
Simple database we've already your primary key not now is defined and all the data types expressed.
And even the ceilings on this datatypes are defined now.
Alternatively in PGE admin not in public Coubertin admin.
What we can do is we can Right-Click on tables click here and create and select table.
This will open up this pop up menu in which you can create any table you want.
Drop writing a single line of code.
Everything will be written for you in this as well tab but let's just quickly go ahead.
Go to movies and right click on movies and say properties.
So if we do this it opens the same pop up window.
But already for existing table movies.
So as you can see the name is here the tablespace scheme is all of that is here.
Columns we can see all four columns.
And as you can see we have movie name and movie year both selected as primary key.
And both of them have to be not now because of the primary key constraint and also have Agenor which
also has not now condition because we specify that we don't want it to be null.
Also here you can see all the different data types that you can have lengths that we put in.
And then as you can see if the jury has no length because it's predefined by as well.
So now we go with the constraints.
We can see that the primary key for our table movies is movie name and movie year.
We don't have any foreign keys we don't have any checks.
We have a unique constraint.
Actually we don't have any constraint because as yawners and countries can repeat themselves.
And if we put a unique constraint on USA for example on countries that means we can only enter every
country once every country named once and then we have to change every country name to be different
from the previous one unique constraints are generally put on user names.
If you ever look to any website and chances are the first time you try to log in to create your account
it will tell you that sorry this account name has already been taking push create a new one and this
is done through unique constraint because for the Web site management it's very important for them to
be able to uniquely identify every user.
And that's what unique constrains us.
We also don't have any extra constraints right now then just if we click on advanced we can see how
we can see a lot of different stuff.
You can specify even more parameter security or the privileges or older security labels will be done
later on in the course.
And now if we click on rescue Well it shows us nothing because we have not changed anything.
But for example let's go ahead and go back to our columns and let's say that we want to put country
to be not null as well.
Now if we go to ask you all tab it just basically shows us the lines of code that P.G. admin wrote for
us.
You know in order to set country to not now and as you can see we can write all of this code by hand
into the Eskew well and it will do the same thing.
So unless this Cardus just press cancel because we don't need it.
And yet this pretty much concludes our lecture.
I understand there is a lot to learn a lot to get your head around a lot to get used to but if you think
about it it's quite easy.
We say is that we create a table then we specify the table name.
And then what we need to do is just open the brackets and write every column name separated by a comma
and inside that column name or what do we have to specify is that they type.
So either it will be text or numbers or date Times or Time.
We just have to specify it and after that we can create our database if we want to if we need to we
can specify primary keys not now constrains unique constraints for foreign keys and all of those other
things.
But for now this will do.
And if you did not get or understand any things in this tutorial I highly recommend you go again through
it and try to create your own table.
As we move along with your own data type you of your own columns because that will not is really necessary
to understand the basic concept of creating tables.
I hope you enjoyed this lecture and I'll see you in the next one.